Now that we've wrapped up our
coverage of the Java parallel
streams framework internals,
let's turn our attention
to yet another example.
This one will demonstrate the
use of parallel spliterators.
We'll show how the
parallel spliterators can
be applied to improve parallel
stream performance by getting
yet finer level granularity
parallelism, which will run
faster on multicore processors.
The solution we're
talking about here
will fix a limitation, a
con, limited performance
that we covered
earlier in our search
with parallel streams example.
SearchWithParallelSpliterator
is yet
another implementation strategy
in our omnibus SearchStreamGang
program.
As you can see, there's many
different strategies involved
here, but we're
going to focus on
SearchWithParallelSpliterator
now.
This particular
implementation uses parallel
streams in three distinct ways.
First, it searches chunks
of input in parallel,
where input, of
course here would
be the works of Shakespeare.
Each input string is a
different work of Shakespeare.
It also searches chunks
of phrases in parallel.
And finally-- and
this is the part
that's different-- we
search chunks of each input
string in parallel.
So each input string
itself will be split up,
using a parallel spliterator
so we can search that input
string in parallel.
This is clearly a very
aggressive parallelism
strategy.
It's kind of like a
three headed monster
like Cerberus who guards
the gates to Hades.
And basically, this allows
us to take maximal advantages
of the cores on our CPU.
In fact, I actually
implemented a program
that tries out all possible
combinations of parallelism
versus sequential processing
for spliterators, phrases,
and input strings.
And I ran this on my six core
CPU Lenovo workstation laptop
with 64 gigabytes of RAM and
a 2.6 gigahertz processor.
And here are the
results that I got.
When I did the processing
for each work of Shakespeare
in parallel, so there are 37
plays and a bunch of sonnets,
which I'll glommed together,
we ended up with 38 strings.
When I ran all the
different models
with parallelism turned on,
that gave the best performance.
Likewise, when I
ran everything was
sequential processing
turned on, that
gave the worst performance.
And then everything else is
somewhere in between there.
And you can see that some
things add more than others
in terms of providing
improvements for parallelism.
In particular, it
looks like searching
for parallel phrases has a
big impact on performance.
But the main point is
if we turn parallelism
on for everything, that's the
best performing configuration.
Then I also ran a
different implementation,
where I went out and split
the works of Shakespeare
up into just two strings,
the first half of Shakespeare
and the second half
of Shakespeare.
So of course, each string
is substantially longer.
And so you can see here, if
you compare the performance,
that we got a little bit better
performance with the two string
variant with everything
running in parallel than we
did with the 38 string variant.
And what I think that
kind of illustrates
is that longer strings
may provide a better
opportunity to leverage
the benefits of spliterator
parallelism, because
of course, we're
splitting the strings
up for the chunks
and processing them in parallel.
So that just provides you with
a little bit of background
to illustrate the way in which
you can use these mechanisms
in a very fine grained manner.
As you'll see, the search with
parallel spliterator process
input method has just
one miniscule change.
And everything else is the same.
The implementation of
everything else in this variant
is identical to these search
with parallel streams version
we looked at before
with one exception.
We pass true here
instead of false.
We had false for the
sequential streams version.
We had false for the search
with parallel streams version.
And now we're going
to turn this to true.
What that does is that triggers
the search for phrase method
to use a parallel
stream in order
to be able to search for a
phrase in an input string.
And so let's go ahead
and kind of take
a look at that
SearchForPhrase code.
This code, as you can see now,
will use a parallel spliterator
to break the input a work of
Shakespeare up into chunks,
and then those chunks
are processed in parallel
to search for phrases
within the chunks.
So you can see here that we
call StreamSupportStream, which
is that helper method
that is used to create
streams, either
sequential or parallel.
And we pass in the
PhraseMatchSpliterator instance
that we allocate, which connects
the input work with the phrase
we're searching for.
And in this case, we're going
to pass in true for parallel.
And so when that
becomes true, this
will end up being
a parallel search,
as opposed to a
sequential search.
So that's basically just
kind of what's going on
with this implementation.
What we're going
to do now is we're
going to focus
in-depth on the phrase
match spliterator
methods, and this
will illustrate lots of
the different points we've
been talking about throughout
our discussion of spliterators
in Java.